Great. So now you know how to create models with TensorFlow and Keras,
and make predictions with them.
What I want to do now is to go over
two other ways that you can create models with TensorFlow and Keras.
One method involves subclassing,
and the other one involves using the add method.
So let's start by looking at subclassing.
First off, why should we care about subclassing?
Well, the main reason is that the tf.keras.Sequential model that we've just
learned about consist of a simple stack of
layers that cannot be used to create arbitrary models.
So if we want to build fully customizable models,
we need to create them by subclassing the tf.keras.Model class.
Let's see an example.
In this example, we're going to create the same model we
created before so that you can compare both methods.
To create a model using subclassing,
we begin by creating a class that inherits from the tf.keras.Model class.
Here, we've called our class network,
but the actual name that you use for your class doesn't matter.
You are free to call it whatever you want.
The important thing to remember, however,
is that you must always inherit from the tf.keras.Model class.
The next step is to define our init method.
Here, we have defined our init method so that it takes
in as argument the number of classes in our dataset.
You can also see that we have set the default value of this parameter to two.
However, you are free to choose the default value that you like.
This number will also determine the number of units in our output layer.
So by default, this neural network will output two values.
Next, we call super to refer to the parent class,
and we're adding a call to the parent's init method.
Just briefly for those who might be unfamiliar with how classes work,
all classes have an init method.
This method is always executed when the class is being initiated.
The init method is used to assign values to object properties,
or perform other operations that are necessary to do when the object is being created.
So you need to have an init method and a super statement for your model to work.
Next, we set the number of classes as
an attribute of the class instance so that we can access it later.
The next step is to create the layers of our network.
The layers are created inside the init method,
and are also set as attributes of the class instance as we can see here.
Each particular layer in a network must have
a unique name because we will use
these names to reference the layers later in the forward pass.
These are the names we've chosen for our layers.
These names are arbitrary,
and you can choose to name your layers however you like,
but you have to be careful that the name you choose
doesn't conflict with the name of an internal variable.
If you happen to choose a name that is restricted, you will get an error.
These layers are created in exactly the same way as we did
previously by using the tf.keras.layers module.
Also, notice that we've set the number of units in
our output layer equal to the number of
classes that was passed as an argument in the init method.
Also notice that in this case,
it is not necessary to specify the shape
of the input tensor in the first layer of our network.
We will still need to specify the shape of our input tensor,
however, but we will do that later when we build our model.
The next step is to define our forward pass.
We do this by creating a call method.
This call method is going to determine how
our input tensor is passed through our network.
Let's go through our forward pass in detail.
First, the call method takes in as argument our input tensor.
It then takes that input tensor and feeds
it to the input layer that we've defined in the init method.
Then the output of this operation is saved into the variable x.
Next, we take x,
which holds the output of our input layer,
and pass it through our hidden layer as we have defined it in the init method.
Then we replace the value of x with the output of our hidden layer.
Finally, we take the output of our hidden layer and we pass it to our output layer,
and then we return the result.
This x holds the output of our network.
The shape of x will be determined by
the batch size and the number of classes we pass as an argument to the init method.
After we have created our class,
the next step is to create our model object.
But before we move on,
I just wanted to point out a few things.
First off, even though we have defined
our layers in the same order in which they appear in the call method,
this doesn't have to be the case.
Therefore, you can define all the layers you
want to put in your neural network in the init method
without having to worry about putting them in
their right order because all that will be determined in the call method.
We put them in the same order in this example just for clarity.
The last thing I want to point out is that
the call method is really where the sequential and the subclassing methods differ.
The call method is what allows subclassing to make fully customizable models.
This is because in the call method,
we can specify all the operations we want to perform on
our tensors and the order in which these operations are going to take place.
In this example, we've just perform the same operations that a sequential model will do.
That is, we're passing our tensors sequentially through the layers of our network.
However, noticed that we could have performed
any operation we wanted on our tensors at any point during our code.
For example, we could have chosen to multiply the output of
the hidden layer by two before feeding it to the output layer,
or we could have chosen to feed
that tensor to another hidden layer before feeding it to our output layer.
As you can see, the possibilities are endless.
So in the call method,
you can perform any operations that you like.
So it gives you great flexibility to experiment and try out new things.
For example, you could have chosen to divide your tensor in two,
and then pass one half through one layer,
and the other half through another layer,
and then join their outputs just to see what happens.
This flexibility is what gives subclassing its power,
but it comes at the risk of making more user errors,
so you use it with caution.
Now that we have created the class for our model,
the next step is to create a model object from our class.
Here, we're creating our model object subclassed_model from our network class.
Since we have 10 classes in our MNIST dataset,
we pass 10 to our network class so that it can create a model with 10 output units.
At this point, our model doesn't have any weights or biases because as you might
remember we didn't provide the shape of our input tensor when we created our class.
Therefore, in order to initialize the weights and biases of our model,
we need to build it by using the build method.
The build method takes as argument the shape of our input tensor,
including the batch size.
Here, we have indicated that we're going to allow
batches of any size by using the keyword None.
We've also specified that our images are 28 by 28 by 1.
Finally, we print out our model summary.
As you can see, it has the same architecture
and the same number of parameters as our sequential model.
Notice that the name of the layers do not correspond to
the names we gave our layers in the init method when we created our class.
This is because the first time you create a model,
tf.keras creates a graph and it adds subsequent models to the same graph,
and labels each of the layers in the graph sequentially.
So these names correspond to the name of the layers in the graph.
That's it. That's how you create a model using subclassing.
Now, it's your turn to build the network using subclassing.
In this exercise, you're going to build
the same network you built in the previous exercise,
but now using the subclassing method.
This is a good time to pause the video and try out
this exercise yourself before I show you my solution.
This is my solution to this exercise.
Here, I created my class,
then I created my init method with a default value of 10 for the number of classes.
Here, I create my layers,
and here I create my call method defining the forward pass.
Then I create a model object,
then I build my model to initialize my weights and biases,
and finally I print out my model summary.
Just like with sequential models,
we can also take a look at the weights and biases of each layer of our subclass models.
In this case, we usually use the name we gave to each layer in the init method.
For example, here we're getting the weights and the biases of
the model we created in our previous exercise from the first hidden layer,
which is named hidden_1.
As usual, we use the get weights method and index zero to get the weights,
and index one to get the biases.
Here, we see the weights and biases of this layer.
We also see that this layer has a total number of 100,352 weights and 128 biases.
Finally, we can make predictions with
our subclass models in exactly the same way as we did for our sequential models.
So this part remains the same as before.